with demand for smaller cars
ever-increasing it's not surprising that
the subcompact hatchback market is one
of the most competitive in South Africa
I just look at the contenders everything
from the Fox Wagon Paulo the Hyundai i20
the Persia 208 Rinna's clear the Ford
Fiesta and a host of others which car do
you choose into the brand new Mazda 2 a
car which in its previous iteration had
to share the limelight with his Ford
Fiesta cousin but now it's a brand new
unencumbered design and the question is
whether it has what it takes to go up
against the big guns in South Africa
Ford and Mazda shared retail outlets and
even platforms until master declared
independence and struck out on its own
during the course of last year with that
independence comes a completely
overhauled range of cars starting with a
master three and Mazda 6 launched last
year and continued now with the arrival
of the all-new master - boasting Mazdas
Kodo design language and SKYACTIV
technology suite the new master 2 looks
set to offer both attitude and
sophistication if cars were judged by
appearance alone the new Mazda 2 would
be a surefire winner it shows off all
the design traits of the so called Kodo
design language this very long swooping
nose a very prominent grille and the
effect is much more aggressive than
you'd expect of a car in this segment
that's prominent front end aside the
Mazda twos scalloped flanks high
shoulder line and powerful haunches
create an athletic sporty impression
under the skin the master 2 employs a
weight saving body and chassis were the
emphasis on low mass and high rigidity
substantial use of lightweight high and
ultra high tensile steel reduces overall
mass while the stiffer lighter chassis
benefits ride refinements and responsive
road banners we tend to underestimate
just how important Kevin design is
considering how much time owners spend
in their class rather than walking
outside looking at the vehicle and from
that point of view
masters designers have done a great job
creating an interior which is both
inviting and intuitive this particular
car wasn't very well spec very
comfortable these high bet seats are
every bit as comfortable as they look
and from an economic perspective the
whole user-friendly layout also adds to
the enjoyment of the vehicle while our
test car was a high spec 1.5 individual
you don't have to pay top dollar to get
a decent level of standard gear even the
baseline active model gets aircon
electric windows and multifunction
steering wheel and a trip computer the
individual adds better sound bluetooth
streaming a 7-inch touchscreen display
leather accents and an overall smarter
execution
riah combination is good for a
subcompact hatchback and the boot was
big enough for all our language and
camera gear which is quite an impressive
feat
the South African mazda2 ranch consists
of six models spanning four
specification levels two engine choices
and two transmission options our
particular test unit is powered by a 1.5
litre petrol engine good for 82
kilowatts and 145 Newton meters drive as
you'd expect is to the front wheels and
the gearboxes are either a 6-speed
manual or a 6-speed Auto our car is
6-speed auto and it's interesting
because Mazda believes that in time more
and more people will be opting for the
automatic transmission the auto box is a
smooth changer and convenient to use in
traffic but it still Rob's the Mazda 2
of some of its Sparkle especially
considering the relatively low maximum
torque output at higher revs there is
manual override and a sport button to
liven things up but a manual box would
still be my first choice here if only to
make full use of the engines lively
character
as much as the message is the kind of
carpet should place the emphasis on
value and economy the arresting styling
of the hashtag means that you end up
expecting quite a bit of sporting
performance as well nine straight-line
terms you liked it to be disappointed
because while it's not exactly slow it's
no sports car I love the more 200 time
around 11.5 seconds top speed a useful
hundred ninety four kilometres an hour
but that's more important than
straight-line speed is the way this car
handles the road the steering very
precise very direct possibly a bit over
assisted but then I suppose you'd expect
that of a kinda sleek and ride comfort
and refinement the surprisingly hood for
such a small hatchback as well as
mentioned the engine needs to be revved
to give its best a trait that will
become more acute at altitude but it
does add to overall driver involvement
fuel economy should be good if you don't
give it too much stick too often Mazda
claims 5.7 liters per hundred kilometers
for the combined cycle but after plenty
of enthusiastic driving in the passes
about Sedgefield our figure was just
under 8 liters for how many kilometers
it takes a special car to be successful
in one of the most competitive segments
of the new car market by judging by our
experience of the Mazda 2 here on the
garden route this car might just have
what it takes
it's certainly very attractive from a
styling point of view the interior
packaging equally inviting with nice and
intuitive ergonomics and from a handling
point of view on the twisty roads we've
driven at certain feels confident and
planted but the biggest question of all
is where the Mazda will be able to get
its dealer network to deliver that kind
of service that this car deserves with
decent customer care to support its
sparking character the Mazda 2 has to be
a winner a lively little engine and
efficient auto box and a great chassis
conspire to deliver a pleasing driving
experience while the cabin offers spec
to match add the surprisingly roomy
accommodation and the master to
impresses on most fronts but the engine
lacks load on urge and a manual gearbox
would be the more involving choice